We have snacks.
NOTE CONF
Okay, okay.
Oh.
NOTE CONF
We can also do, like, a tournament for Mario Kart
to make it a bit more fun.
NOTE CONF
And yeah.
That's it.
NOTE CONF
Hopefully we can see a lot of you guys there.
So.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Thank you.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Thanks for that.
NOTE CONF
That sounds like fun.
So that's tonight in the chaplaincy.
NOTE CONF
If anyone's interested.
Um, so look out for that.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
The red lights here.
NOTE CONF
So let's get started.
So, what's first on my list?
NOTE CONF
All right.
Tutorials.
NOTE CONF
Tutorials are starting next week.
Everybody should have their tutorial in their timetable now.
NOTE CONF
Tutors have been allocated to tutorial groups now.
So you should be able to find out who your
NOTE CONF
tutor is.
We take attendance and tutorials.
NOTE CONF
You need to be there.
If you can't be there, email your tutor and hopefully
NOTE CONF
if you've been given a given a slot that clashes,
then you have followed up on that.
NOTE CONF
Was that a question at the front?
You still don't have it?
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Does anyone here not have a tutorial slot in their
NOTE CONF
timetable?
Just one person.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Come and see me afterwards.
NOTE CONF
Give me your name.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Everybody else.
Can you put your hands up if you have got
NOTE CONF
a tutorial slot in your timetable?
Okay, so it looks like.
NOTE CONF
I mean, not everyone's put their hand up, but most
people have got their hands up and nobody else put
NOTE CONF
their hand up, so they hadn't.
So hopefully everybody else does.
NOTE CONF
Don't know what's going on with the other thing.
Um, anyway, so the assignment one practice tests have been
NOTE CONF
released.
Um, there was an announcement about that, but because of
NOTE CONF
the stupid not sending an email thing from learning, I'm
not sure if all of you saw that.
NOTE CONF
Um, but that is an announcement.
If you go to learn, you'll see that, um, and
NOTE CONF
you'll be hearing more about assignments in the upcoming weeks.
Let me just quickly go to Open Course and show
NOTE CONF
you the schedule for that.
So we're here on week three.
NOTE CONF
So assignment ones have been.
The tests have been released.
NOTE CONF
Uh, right.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So, um, that's week three.
So forget about that.
NOTE CONF
Week two, which we're on.
The practice tests become available.
NOTE CONF
We'll be releasing the actual test next Monday.
I think I will tell you more about that then.
NOTE CONF
Uh, so this is where we are, though.
You got some practice tests?
NOTE CONF
You have a lot of time for assignment one.
There's no need to rush.
NOTE CONF
And just so you know, I'll reemphasize this on Monday,
but assignment one contains things we haven't covered yet.
NOTE CONF
Uh, it will.
We will have covered it well before the deadline for
NOTE CONF
assignment one, but we release it early to give you
plenty of time.
NOTE CONF
But if you haven't done a lot of AP before,
just pace yourself.
NOTE CONF
Don't expect to be able to do all of them
right now, but you will certainly be able to do
NOTE CONF
all of them in plenty of time.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So.
Whew.
NOTE CONF
I'm now.
I don't have any idea what that means.
NOTE CONF
Um, I'm going to go back to last week and
go through the questions.
NOTE CONF
So I think I've worked out quite a good way
to do Questions.
NOTE CONF
If I just, uh, do it in the next lecture,
I can then go through, make it a list and
NOTE CONF
delete all the things that are not saying anything useful.
It's still helpful for me if you don't put in
NOTE CONF
a ton of random things into the ask me anything
stuff.
NOTE CONF
But anyway, here we've got some stuff.
So I'm going to go through this and answer this.
NOTE CONF
So first one is can I code double array ten.
Now what is this asking I think is this somehow?
NOTE CONF
Uh, I think I don't want to do that.
Um, let's do it here.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So think what this is asking is.
NOTE CONF
So I said, right, say we want to have a
an array of doubles.
NOTE CONF
What we have to do is we declare the type,
we give it a name, and then we use a
NOTE CONF
keyword new, and we say what it's going to be,
and we say how long it's going to be.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So if we do that, uh, and then there's my
NOTE CONF
array of doubles and we can print that out, we'll
use a enhanced for loop.
NOTE CONF
So for elements Sorry.
Uh, in array, an element will be a double.
NOTE CONF
Because we've just said everything in array is a double.
Um, print array.
NOTE CONF
Print element.
Sorry.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so that's going to go through.
That's that's that's a made in new array.
NOTE CONF
Uh length ten.
It hasn't instantiated anything specifically.
NOTE CONF
And now it's going through and printing it all.
Is that going to work.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
So this just prints out ten elements of 0.0.
NOTE CONF
So I think sorry I'll just close that down so
I don't have to go through so many screens.
NOTE CONF
I think what this is saying is could we here
instead let's just put this ten in here and then
NOTE CONF
not really bother with this because what we're doing is
saying we're declaring this array.
NOTE CONF
It's it's a double of type ten.
But as you can see from all the read in
NOTE CONF
here, we can't do that.
Or if we put the keyword new in here or
NOTE CONF
something okay.
We can't do that.
NOTE CONF
This makes sense.
Logically.
NOTE CONF
You can read it and understand what you're saying, but
it's not how you do it in Java.
NOTE CONF
You have to do it.
Like I said in Java.
NOTE CONF
No shortcuts.
You have to use the keyword new.
NOTE CONF
The exception to that is when you use the shorthand
of the curly braces that we looked at, but otherwise
NOTE CONF
you have to do it like this.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So the answer to that is no, you can't come
in blank.
NOTE CONF
One question what was length?
We didn't define it.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So this is something that came up several times in
NOTE CONF
the lecture.
Let me see.
NOTE CONF
So here is an example right.
We are we're using this dot which we introduce is
NOTE CONF
something that means applying a method to something.
So length is a method.
NOTE CONF
And we're applying it to b which is b is
a double array.
NOTE CONF
Length is not something we've defined.
Length is a built in function.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So you get various built in functions for basic things
NOTE CONF
that are done all the time.
And we'll come across quite a lot of these.
NOTE CONF
There are other more complex built in functions in libraries.
So we had a quick look at the maths random
NOTE CONF
one.
So you have to load the maths package.
NOTE CONF
If you just use random without saying where it comes
from.
NOTE CONF
It won't work, but you can use Math.random and Java
will know what it is.
NOTE CONF
Here length is just built in so you don't need
to define it.
NOTE CONF
This is predefined for you and there are quite a
few of these.
NOTE CONF
And you will see them more and more of these
as we go along.
NOTE CONF
The index.
The array index basically offsets a pointer under the hood.
NOTE CONF
So index zero is offset of zero.
So first element.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So this is not a question.
NOTE CONF
This is an explanation I left that up because I
think that's a really nice one.
NOTE CONF
So what the what the index is saying is how
much offset are you.
NOTE CONF
From this from the top.
So if you're in the first position you're not offset
NOTE CONF
at all.
So somebody asked last time why do you start an
NOTE CONF
array at zero and not at one?
The first element kind of seems like it should be
NOTE CONF
element one, but it's not.
Not because what you're talking about is an offset.
NOTE CONF
So position one is offset by zero from the beginning.
So that might help a little bit.
NOTE CONF
When should we use enhanced for loop over array for
each.
NOTE CONF
So for each is a method that's built in.
That's in the arrays package that you can use.
NOTE CONF
It is in some ways similar to the enhanced for
loop, but we're not covering right now.
NOTE CONF
So I'm not going to talk about for each.
It's something you might come across later.
NOTE CONF
But for now don't worry about it for each.
So I don't want to get into details of that
NOTE CONF
right now.
Oh my God, please don't add stuff.
NOTE CONF
I thought this was blocked.
Okay, if you add stuff, it makes it really hard
NOTE CONF
to go through this.
Um, who do I ask about scheduling clashes?
NOTE CONF
Um, they would look back to the announcement on learn
or the email you got about tutorials as an email
NOTE CONF
there.
Is this okay?
NOTE CONF
Double n array?
No, we already looked at that.
NOTE CONF
That's not okay.
Please can you explain re explain how for loop we'll
NOTE CONF
be looking at more examples of that today.
Other than weekly quiz and lab exercises what do I
NOTE CONF
have to do this week?
The answer is not really anything, except I would recommend
NOTE CONF
starting to have a look at the assignment practice tests.
Um, that's that.
NOTE CONF
They haven't been released then.
Um, and tutorials.
NOTE CONF
Not this week.
So you don't have to do that, but you do
NOTE CONF
have to do it next week.
Does the intelligent intro course follow along this course?
NOTE CONF
It doesn't follow along.
It's not designed in conjunction with it.
NOTE CONF
It will cover a lot of the same stuff.
I don't know the intelligent intro IntelliJ intro course in
NOTE CONF
detail.
I imagine it's quite useful.
NOTE CONF
So do look at that if you want to.
When do we start working on proper object oriented projects?
NOTE CONF
So we do do object object orientation in this course.
This is a course about object orientation.
NOTE CONF
But there is quite a lot of groundwork before we
can get on to even to really talking about objects,
NOTE CONF
which we'll do quite soon.
But then what really what object orientation means and how
NOTE CONF
you design with that in mind is something we get
onto later on in the course, because we have a
NOTE CONF
lot of people in this course who don't have experience
with programming.
NOTE CONF
So we have to cover quite a lot of the
basics, which aren't really anything to do with object orientation.
NOTE CONF
And when we've got those in place, we'll move on.
Uh, have you read Clean Code by Robert C Martin?
NOTE CONF
I have not, but that sounds really good.
So maybe you guys should look at that.
NOTE CONF
You could have used break statements instead of nesting ifs.
Yes you could.
NOTE CONF
And so I think I mentioned that in the course
we looked at breaking and then we looked at nested
NOTE CONF
ifs.
Usually, nesting ifs are considered better practice.
NOTE CONF
Breaking is quite easy to make it break at the
wrong time to do the wrong thing, and it's also
NOTE CONF
much more difficult to read.
So sometimes breaking is really useful.
NOTE CONF
But.
And we could have done it then.
NOTE CONF
But nesting ifs is another way of doing it and
often better.
NOTE CONF
Dot length is a method.
Functional programming is better.
NOTE CONF
That is a that's a matter of opinion function.
Functional programming is definitely not nearly as common, so you're
NOTE CONF
unlikely to use functional programming very much.
In industry, for example, you will use object oriented a
NOTE CONF
lot, whether that's Java or something else.
Whether or not it's better is something that people could
NOTE CONF
argue about for for weeks and months.
I don't have a strong opinion about that.
NOTE CONF
Does the if need to be nested inside the alpha
alpha?
NOTE CONF
Could you just use Elsif?
Okay, so let's quickly look at where were we doing
NOTE CONF
that.
That was in I think that was still in hello
NOTE CONF
world wasn't it.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So we've got the if here if statement in brackets,
then this is what you do.
NOTE CONF
Else so each if statement can only have one else.
Well actually.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
So else.
NOTE CONF
Else statements don't have conditionals right.
So if you have lots of conditionals.
NOTE CONF
You nest it in this way.
I don't think you can do that differently.
NOTE CONF
Why do arrays always start from zero?
Had a helpful comment to explain that which is more
NOTE CONF
efficient initially?
Initialising I at the beginning or inside the for loop?
NOTE CONF
I don't think that really matters.
Um, so when you're doing a for loop, you're always
NOTE CONF
yeah, you need to initialise a counter inside.
Um, that's part of the the structure of a for
NOTE CONF
loop.
I don't think it makes much difference to efficiency in
NOTE CONF
general.
Whereabouts you initialise things as long as you do it
NOTE CONF
before you use them.
Is it nesting if statements a bad practice?
NOTE CONF
Uh, this comes back to something we talk about a
lot, and I've already mentioned readability and maintainability of code.
NOTE CONF
Yes.
If you have 15 nested ifs all in one, that's
NOTE CONF
going to make it really hard to read.
Which in turn makes it hard to maintain.
NOTE CONF
And you have loads of brackets all over the place,
which makes it hard to maintain.
NOTE CONF
So you want to keep the structure fairly simple.
And that's something we'll be talking about in this lecture.
NOTE CONF
Nested ifs are not bad practice in general.
Often they're the best thing to do.
NOTE CONF
But if you're getting really, really deep and complex, probably
that's not a good idea and you're going to need
NOTE CONF
to think about a different way.
You might be able to structure something so that it
NOTE CONF
doesn't get that that depth and complexity.
So, so a really high complexity in the structure of
NOTE CONF
code is something that you want to avoid because it
makes it difficult to maintain and difficult to understand.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So that's all the questions from last lecture.
So this lecture will have a slide again.
NOTE CONF
And you can add anything new.
All right.
NOTE CONF
Part of the lecture this is Mika.
She is a three year old former stray.
NOTE CONF
And I'm sure she's very happy to be living in
her loving home now.
NOTE CONF
And we've got two this week, this lecture.
This is Jack, who looks very cute.
NOTE CONF
I love the bow tie so I've got loads of
pet pictures.
NOTE CONF
I'm definitely going to do two Electra.
I might have two up to three.
NOTE CONF
So thanks for sending and do keep them coming.
I can put more in.
NOTE CONF
All right, live design I'm going to quickly move on
to the biscuits question whilst I go back to this.
NOTE CONF
This is just a placeholder to remind me.
Um, my office hour on Monday was great.
NOTE CONF
I had loads of people coming along.
I totally ran out of biscuits.
NOTE CONF
Um, so that was really good.
So please do come along on Monday just to say
NOTE CONF
hello, just to just to have a chat.
And obviously also if you have questions so you can
NOTE CONF
vote for biscuits this time I've restricted your choice so
we don't get crazy things coming in.
NOTE CONF
I think word clouds are dodgy.
So you just got a choice of five this time.
NOTE CONF
But I might I might change that.
I mean I will change that week by week.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So what I want to mention quickly now I'm going
NOTE CONF
to talk about this more on Monday.
Um, we've, we're trialling this new thing in from B.
NOTE CONF
So this is not object oriented programming but it is
part of your core learning in year one.
NOTE CONF
Um, and it's the stuff we're doing around life design.
So this is coming out of a program they run
NOTE CONF
in Stanford.
Um, so it was originally designed by two product designers
NOTE CONF
in Silicon Valley, Bill Burnett and Dave Evans, both of
whom have done really seminal things.
NOTE CONF
I think one of them did something really seminal to
do with how mouse touchpads are used and stuff there.
NOTE CONF
They've done really seminal design, and then they both went
to work at Stanford, and they were thinking about how
NOTE CONF
students respond to their courses and thinking about how this
tech, this these approaches they use in product design is
NOTE CONF
actually really helpful for students to think about their university
experience.
NOTE CONF
So and this was this is now taught at Stanford,
I think to everyone.
NOTE CONF
But it was particularly originated in computer science for computer
science students.
NOTE CONF
So it's a bit more of an abstract way for
you guys to look at your learning and, and more
NOTE CONF
broadly, your experiences at university and what we're going to
do in week four and week eight.
NOTE CONF
On the Monday we're going to run, these sessions are
going to be two hour sessions.
NOTE CONF
You're going to get free lunch provided we've sorted out
how it interacts with your math courses.
NOTE CONF
So it should all be fine.
But we'll talk about this more.
NOTE CONF
Another that's probably maybe next week.
But what I want to do right now is that
NOTE CONF
we want a few people to help us run this.
So we're looking for a few volunteers who will be
NOTE CONF
will be helping us out with the organisation.
Um, and if you do this, we'll be super grateful.
NOTE CONF
And I think it'll be really great learning experience to
to look at how you facilitate this also.
NOTE CONF
We'll have some cool free stuff that we can give
out to people who are helping us.
NOTE CONF
Um, I mean, actually, I don't know how cool it
is.
NOTE CONF
I don't know what we've got, but I'll find some
good stuff for you.
NOTE CONF
Um, so you need to be able to come along
about 20 minutes early to the lecture, and there's a
NOTE CONF
sign up.
If you use that QR code, you can sign up
NOTE CONF
to volunteer as a facilitator.
We'd be really, really grateful if people are interested in
NOTE CONF
doing this.
So please do consider doing that.
NOTE CONF
Um, I'll send out an email about that later on
if I don't already have enough people signed up.
NOTE CONF
Um, fine.
Oh, wow.
NOTE CONF
Rich tea.
This makes me so happy.
NOTE CONF
Rich tea is actually my favourite biscuit, but most people
think it's incredibly boring.
NOTE CONF
But it seems to be the clear favourite.
Okay, so we'll have Jammie Dodgers seven people.
NOTE CONF
Really?
That's madness.
NOTE CONF
Um, five for biscotti.
Anyway, Richie is the clear winner.
NOTE CONF
We'll have Richie on Monday, but we'll maybe have some
of these others in weeks to come.
NOTE CONF
Uh, okay.
So now let's get back to some actual Java.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so last lecture, we were just getting on to
the, um, looking at arrays through the example of a
NOTE CONF
pack of cards, which we can actually do on IntelliJ,
because I had forgotten I had updated it and I
NOTE CONF
had the updated version and not the original version that
I want to show you how to update.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So the idea here is that we have two arrays.
NOTE CONF
One, they're both arrays of strings.
One is called rank and that is every value you
NOTE CONF
can get for cards.
So that's two up to ace.
NOTE CONF
And the other is um an array of the suits
which is clubs diamonds hearts and spades.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And we want to use these two arrays to populate,
NOTE CONF
um, or to print out every possible value.
Um, or that you can get in a pack of
NOTE CONF
cards.
Well, actually no, that's not what we're doing right now.
NOTE CONF
What we're doing now is, uh, just picking a random
card.
NOTE CONF
So this is like, pick a card, any card.
So we get Math.random to pick a random number.
NOTE CONF
So when Math.random always returns a number between 0 and
1.
NOTE CONF
So if we multiply that by 13, we'll get a
number between one.
NOTE CONF
Well we get it.
We'll get a double that's somewhere between zero and um
NOTE CONF
and 13.
And then we cast that to an integer.
NOTE CONF
And that will therefore give us an integer between 1
and 13, one and 12.
NOTE CONF
Um, sorry.
Zero and 12.
NOTE CONF
Um, and that will therefore um, and if we look
at whatever's in that rank, it will be randomly one
NOTE CONF
of these.
And then again we multiply by four.
NOTE CONF
That will randomly help us pick one of the clubs,
one of the suits.
NOTE CONF
And then if we print it out every time, it
will come up with something different depending on what random
NOTE CONF
numbers are generated.
Um, okay.
NOTE CONF
So now let's look at IntelliJ.
Um, I don't want Hello World anymore.
NOTE CONF
What I want is cards.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So what we're doing here, we've got this nested for
loop.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So we're going.
NOTE CONF
First of all we've got a counter called I that's
going through number 0 to 13 stopping before it gets
NOTE CONF
to 13.
And then within that it's going through another iterator J
NOTE CONF
which is going through four.
And then every time we are populating this new array
NOTE CONF
called deck which we defined up here, um, and we're
giving it a rank and a suit.
NOTE CONF
So it's going to, it's going to say um, so
if I is five and J is spades is going
NOTE CONF
to be the five of spades.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So first of all have a think about this.
Is it is it going to print out things like
NOTE CONF
this.
Is it going to be output one or is it
NOTE CONF
going to be output two i.e. is it going to
go through everything of the same number, going through the
NOTE CONF
different suits and then move on to the next number,
or is it going to go stick with a suit
NOTE CONF
and go through each number in there.
So I'm just going to give you just a minute
NOTE CONF
to have a look at that and see if you
can think what's going to happen there.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So who thinks it's going to be output one.
NOTE CONF
I fix the number and go through the suits.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
And who thinks it's going to be output two.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Quite mixed.
So let's run and see okay.
NOTE CONF
So it's going to be output one.
It fixes the number and then it goes through the
NOTE CONF
suits.
Now why does it happen like this.
NOTE CONF
Because this is the outer loop.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So first of all, we're we're we're choosing a rank.
So we'll start off with rank two which is in
NOTE CONF
position zero.
Not it's not rank two.
NOTE CONF
So the the value of the card is two.
And then with this fix with them within this four
NOTE CONF
loop we're going to go through every suit.
And only when we've gone through the suit and we've
NOTE CONF
populated the deck with that suit, and we're going to
come out of this inner for loop and go back
NOTE CONF
to this for loop, where we'll iterate and go on
to the three.
NOTE CONF
So that's why it's happening that way.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So what do I want to show you about this.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So this is stuff I mean this is actually not
directly to do with arrays, but this is important stuff
NOTE CONF
you need to know in coding.
So you can see it.
NOTE CONF
Very often when we have arrays we might want to
move stuff around.
NOTE CONF
So we had an array of buildings last time.
We might want to change the buildings around.
NOTE CONF
We might want to change the names when they change,
when they change the David Hume out of 40, George
NOTE CONF
Square or whatever, we might want to change that.
But in a suit of cards, sorry, a pack of
NOTE CONF
cards.
We don't want to change things.
NOTE CONF
These have been set forever.
So we want to just nobody.
NOTE CONF
We don't ever want anybody to mess around with what's
actually there.
NOTE CONF
So we can use the key word final.
Oops.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And what this means is that you cannot change what's
NOTE CONF
in this array.
This array is fixed.
NOTE CONF
Those values will always be the values in that array.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um, and the convention is when you, when you have
something that's final, you give its name.
NOTE CONF
Its name is in uppercase.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So this is saying this.
These are the ranks.
NOTE CONF
These will always be the ranks.
And nobody will ever be able to change them.
NOTE CONF
Now you see here that this now is in red.
And what it's saying is that it doesn't it can't
NOTE CONF
resolve the symbol rank.
This is because Java is case sensitive.
NOTE CONF
So it will not connect this rank to that rank.
You've got to have the cases matching.
NOTE CONF
So I can just change those and that.
So it doesn't make any difference to how it runs.
NOTE CONF
It just makes a difference to what might happen in
the future.
NOTE CONF
Um.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So also we have this number 52, right?
What is the significance of number 52?
NOTE CONF
Well, because we've been talking about cards, it's probably fairly
obvious to you what that what the significance of that
NOTE CONF
number is.
It's it's how many cards you have in a deck
NOTE CONF
of cards in a deck of cards, but that's not
explained anywhere.
NOTE CONF
And if you come back to this at another time
and you're looking at this one, you haven't been thinking
NOTE CONF
about cards, you can be like, well, here's this number.
What does that mean?
NOTE CONF
This is what we call magic numbers.
These are numbers that float about.
NOTE CONF
And they're they're, um, they're meaning might be obvious to
you when you're coding, but it's not necessarily immediately obvious
NOTE CONF
to anyone who's reading it.
So you want to get rid of magic numbers.
NOTE CONF
You want to explain what these numbers are instead.
So what we're going to do here is we're going
NOTE CONF
to we're going to have an integer and we're going
to call it card.
NOTE CONF
And this integer is going to be rank times length.
Sorry.
NOTE CONF
The length of rank Multiplied by the length of suit.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
And actually this is going to be final.
So so card this is the number of cards.
NOTE CONF
And this is 52 right.
What we're doing here is exactly what we did in
NOTE CONF
our heads here multiplying the rank by the suit.
So we get 52.
NOTE CONF
But it's explaining where that number comes from.
And this we also want to make final.
NOTE CONF
There's always 52 cards in a pack of cards.
So we've made that uppercase.
NOTE CONF
And instead of saying 52 here we'll say card okay.
So again this is just tidying it up so that
NOTE CONF
you know you can always figure out what's going on
with card.
NOTE CONF
This is about good practice.
All right.
NOTE CONF
So those are just a couple of points I wanted
to point out.
NOTE CONF
And this is the explanation in the slides.
It's exactly what we've already gone through.
NOTE CONF
Um so don't so generally any number in there should
be replaced by some explanation of what it's doing.
NOTE CONF
Are you working it out so you can see.
Don't overdo it if you've got a zero.
NOTE CONF
You know, that's fine.
But generally you don't want to have numbers floating about,
NOTE CONF
uh, readability and maintainability.
Um, shuffling.
NOTE CONF
I think I'm going to leave this to you to
have a look at as an extra example, if you
NOTE CONF
like, this is just doing more stuff with integers.
There's nothing especially different here.
NOTE CONF
Um, okay.
So we'll look briefly at two dimensional arrays.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So that's um, where you've got not just one kind
NOTE CONF
of data but multiple data.
So an example is students and grades.
NOTE CONF
So all students do multiple.
So what courses are students enrolled on.
NOTE CONF
There's loads and loads of courses and most students have
more than one course.
NOTE CONF
So you've got different dimensions of data.
Um and there's loads and there's loads and loads of
NOTE CONF
situations where you have it's like table data essentially.
So in, in maths, do you think of this as
NOTE CONF
an abstract in Java this is a 2D array.
So here for example we have um a double array
NOTE CONF
of doubles where we just have these values and.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So in order to access it you would.
Exactly the same.
NOTE CONF
You use the square brackets to say what you're talking
about.
NOTE CONF
And the first thing you look at, the first number
you put in there is the row.
NOTE CONF
And the second is the column.
So if we use the short term with the.
NOTE CONF
With the two double brackets, if you're first of all
you give the row and then you give the column.
NOTE CONF
And as always of course things start at zero.
So what this is doing here is this is.
NOTE CONF
This is initiating a new array.
And you declare it in just the same way with
NOTE CONF
the code word new.
The kind of the thing that says what kind of.
NOTE CONF
Thing you've got in there, and then the length of
each of the arrays.
NOTE CONF
And they don't need to be square.
So these don't need to be the same here.
NOTE CONF
We've got this has got 1010 rows but only three
columns.
NOTE CONF
And then what this is going what this is doing
is going through and setting everything to 0.0.
NOTE CONF
Although we don't need to do that because it initialises
that anyway.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So each.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So and here you've got the curly brackets notations again.
NOTE CONF
So we've got we're declaring something called P which is
a um a double array of doubles.
NOTE CONF
And so we start off with the square bracket with
sorry with the curly braces.
NOTE CONF
Um, which shows that this is an array.
Um, as, as we've seen before.
NOTE CONF
And then every element where before, for example, in the
buildings, we had that as strings here it's another array.
NOTE CONF
So it's just the same notation.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So what is P13.
I think we've got a question.
NOTE CONF
Woke up about that.
Yes.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So what is P13.
NOTE CONF
Have a look at that and see if you if
you ask it to return P13.
NOTE CONF
What is it going to return.
I'll give you another few seconds to do that.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
We've got quite a good response.
NOTE CONF
So the most popular response is 0.32.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So we're looking at row one which is the second
row down because the top row will be row zero.
NOTE CONF
And then so when we look at the row first
and then the column which is the fourth one because
NOTE CONF
the fourth one is at index three.
And that gives us 0.32.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Uh this is another example of matrix addition.
NOTE CONF
Um, so have a look at that.
It's really just the same thing going on here.
NOTE CONF
Matrix addition is I can't even remember how to do
matrix addition.
NOTE CONF
But this tells you you have to find what's in
each column, and then you're creating this new array by
NOTE CONF
adding things up.
So have a look at that.
NOTE CONF
Matrix multiplication.
The maths is slightly more complicated, but the idea with
NOTE CONF
the arrays is exactly the same.
Enhanced for loops.
NOTE CONF
We already looked at this.
Let's just look at another one, particularly because we were
NOTE CONF
asked about that.
But I think that's going to.
NOTE CONF
Are we going to have we'll have more examples of
this later.
NOTE CONF
Anyway.
Here we've got a for loop.
NOTE CONF
We're going through everything in the deck and we're printing
out whatever it is.
NOTE CONF
Um, but again, we're just doing the same thing for
every element.
NOTE CONF
So we don't need this complex thing.
We just need to say for every element in in
NOTE CONF
deck, do the same thing.
Um, so IntelliJ is going to do this for us
NOTE CONF
because it's nice and helpful.
So I look at the message this is a yellow
NOTE CONF
message.
It's happy to run this, but it's telling me this
NOTE CONF
is not great practice.
Um, and then it's telling me what I can do
NOTE CONF
to make it better if I can.
Actually.
NOTE CONF
There we go.
It's saying, do you want me to replace this with
NOTE CONF
the hearts for loop?
Yes I do, so here it's giving.
NOTE CONF
This doesn't matter what it's calling it.
It's saying there's something called S and deck.
NOTE CONF
It knows that this is going to be a string
because I've told it here.
NOTE CONF
her that deck is an array of strings, and you
just need to go through every element of deck and
NOTE CONF
print that element out.
That's what this for loop is saying.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so if that's still not clear, you'll get a
bit of practice at this in the labs.
NOTE CONF
And the tutorials should become clearer as you practice.
Okay, I think we've said this all.
NOTE CONF
I don't want to um, label this.
Here's another example.
NOTE CONF
Um, we're just printing out the words.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So, um, things we looked at, we looked at arrays.
Rays are super, super common ways of storing data.
NOTE CONF
You're uses all the time.
And they don't have to be single arrays.
NOTE CONF
They can be, um, multiple multi-dimensional.
Um, and if you have local contents that you don't
NOTE CONF
want to change, use the word final and use for
loops unless you've got a good reason not to.
NOTE CONF
All right.
So let's have a look at functions.
NOTE CONF
Functions or static methods.
I mean technically in Java.
NOTE CONF
Static methods is a better.
Is more correct.
NOTE CONF
But you will find that generally people just refer to
them as functions.
NOTE CONF
Functions and methods are the same thing.
It's just different terminology.
NOTE CONF
So why are they so helpful.
So first of all we're going to look at this
NOTE CONF
program.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So I'm going to look at this in IntelliJ.
Here is somewhere.
NOTE CONF
Let's see.
This is called duplication.
NOTE CONF
This is actually not a very good name for this
duplication I should have given this something clearer.
NOTE CONF
But here we've got something that works out stuff around
pocket money.
NOTE CONF
So we've got names of kids.
We've got how much they get, pocket money per week
NOTE CONF
and how much they're trying to save.
So then it's looking at how many weeks it's going
NOTE CONF
to take them to save the amount that they want
to save.
NOTE CONF
Now you can see there's a lot of repetition here.
So I thought, this is quite long.
NOTE CONF
There's a lot of lines in here and it's quite
long, but there's also lots of repetition.
NOTE CONF
So I'm adding names together.
Um, so let's look at this first of all.
NOTE CONF
So instead of doing this just adding names together here,
this is kind of annoying because we're doing it in
NOTE CONF
two places.
What I can do.
NOTE CONF
All right I know it's uppercase is I can create
a method.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So instead of saying I'm going to do this by
NOTE CONF
adding these two, I'm going to create a method that
is called join names.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So I'm going to get rid of that join names.
NOTE CONF
And I'm going to pass it in the names I
want it to join which is jock and MacInnes.
NOTE CONF
Um, and I don't need this anymore because I've got
a method.
NOTE CONF
So this is going to go off and do that
for me.
NOTE CONF
The stuff that I was doing above is now going
to be done in a separate method, and I can
NOTE CONF
put this in here as well, join names and then
put these names in.
NOTE CONF
Get rid of that.
Okay, so now you can see those already look a
NOTE CONF
little bit neater.
And I'm already using the same method to do to
NOTE CONF
two different things which is nice.
It's got this in red of course because I'm calling
NOTE CONF
a method, but it doesn't know what this method is.
And I can't call a method that doesn't exist.
NOTE CONF
So if I want to do this, I need to
first create my method before I can run this.
NOTE CONF
So it's quite common practice to put in methods that
don't exist that you know you want to create and
NOTE CONF
then create them afterwards, but obviously you can't run it
until you have created them.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So I'm so methods they can go anywhere in a
NOTE CONF
class file as long as it's before they're called.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So they've got to be physically before they're called.
So main will go at the bottom generally because it's
NOTE CONF
calling things that you need to define elsewhere.
So I'm going to call a method called join names
NOTE CONF
and what?
What?
NOTE CONF
What is this?
What is the input going to be?
NOTE CONF
It's going to be first name and last name.
Okay, now, as with all everything in Java, I have
NOTE CONF
to tell it what type these things are going to
be.
NOTE CONF
So these are both going to be strings.
And with all methods I need to give it certain
NOTE CONF
information about it.
So I want this to be a public method and
NOTE CONF
it's going to be static.
We're going to look later on what that means.
NOTE CONF
Now what do I want to do.
What do I want this method to return.
NOTE CONF
Do I want it to turn anything?
Yeah, I want it to return a string.
NOTE CONF
Right.
That's kind of obvious because we're getting a name out
NOTE CONF
of it.
But we can also see here we are assigning it
NOTE CONF
to something that's a string.
So what we're saying is call this name, this is
NOTE CONF
going to return something.
And that's something is going to be a string.
NOTE CONF
So this has got to be a string.
So I'm saying here this is going to return a
NOTE CONF
string.
Now I'm going to use the word return.
NOTE CONF
So every method that's not void has to have the
keyword return.
NOTE CONF
That's telling you telling the method what it should return.
That's only not the case if it isn't returning anything
NOTE CONF
like a void method.
What do I want it to return?
NOTE CONF
Just first name plus last name.
And as we saw last week, this is doing the
NOTE CONF
job of string concatenation.
So it's just shoving those together.
NOTE CONF
So if I run that.
That should work.
NOTE CONF
Although you can see that I don't have a gap.
Those are run straight together because I'm concatenating straight together.
NOTE CONF
Actually I probably would want a space with that.
So let's put in a space and run that.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And then that's got a space.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And there's other things we can do.
NOTE CONF
So there's weeks to save.
You can see there's some duplication coming in here as
NOTE CONF
well.
So I can just quickly do that.
NOTE CONF
Uh to oops.
To say ten.
NOTE CONF
And to.
Ten.
NOTE CONF
Get rid of that.
And I'm going to make a method here, which is
NOTE CONF
also going to be public and static.
And this is going to return an integer weeks to
NOTE CONF
save int.
What is this pocket money.
NOTE CONF
And an integer which is target.
And what's this function going to look like.
NOTE CONF
What am I actually trying to do here.
We can see here I just want to divide them.
NOTE CONF
So I'm just going to return target.
Divided by pocket money okay.
NOTE CONF
And if I haven't messed that up that should work
okay.
NOTE CONF
So you can see this is already looking much easier
to read.
NOTE CONF
I need to do this again at the bottom so
that I'm using the method again here.
NOTE CONF
So I'm separating these out.
It's just much clearer and easier.
NOTE CONF
All right.
Oops.
NOTE CONF
So this is talking through everything we've just discussed.
If you'd like to see it written down.
NOTE CONF
Have a look at that.
So why do I want to do this?
NOTE CONF
I'm breaking down a complex task into simpler steps.
I'm hiding the implementation details from anybody who calls it,
NOTE CONF
which is actually really useful.
So it's useful to me, perhaps as someone using this
NOTE CONF
to say, oh, right, is his his.
They're going to join the names I and some others
NOTE CONF
doings join names.
I don't care how you do during names.
NOTE CONF
I don't want to see all that code, all the
detail of how you do this.
NOTE CONF
How does maths generate random numbers?
I don't know, I don't really want to look at
NOTE CONF
those codes, that code.
I just need to know that that's what it's going
NOTE CONF
to do.
So very often you don't want to look at this
NOTE CONF
code of methods.
You just need to know the functionality.
NOTE CONF
So it's kind of a way of hiding the implementation
so that it's not, um, not cluttering things up.
NOTE CONF
Um, okay.
This principle writing dry code.
NOTE CONF
Have I mentioned this before?
I'm going to bang on about this a lot.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Dry is an acronym for Don't Repeat Yourself.
NOTE CONF
If you're if you're typing the same code in different
parts in different places.
NOTE CONF
That should be a function.
And instead of typing the same code in different places,
NOTE CONF
you should be calling that function okay.
Why should you do this?
NOTE CONF
Because it's easier to read and it's easier to maintain.
So here, for example, I might decide actually I want
NOTE CONF
middle name as well.
String middle name.
NOTE CONF
So I just need to go to this function.
And then I'm going to add that there.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And now every call to that function I'm going to
NOTE CONF
have to change because that now takes a different number
of arguments.
NOTE CONF
Um, but I don't have to change the code how
I'm putting those together.
NOTE CONF
Or it might be I'm not even out in an
argument.
NOTE CONF
I might say, actually, it's better if they're the other
way around.
NOTE CONF
Uh, I want to be last name and then first
name.
NOTE CONF
I can just do that here.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
And then this is going to happen in every place
I call.
NOTE CONF
This Is this going to happen to both Jane and
to John and to what's he called jock?
NOTE CONF
Whereas if I hadn't got this in a function, I'm
going to have to go through both of those and
NOTE CONF
change it twice, which when it's twice, not too bad.
But if it's multiple, it gets more and more complicated,
NOTE CONF
more and more easier to make a mistake.
So it just makes it much better code.
NOTE CONF
You can reuse code across multiple programs.
So it's not just something that's happening within a method.
NOTE CONF
It's something that I can call from elsewhere.
So it's just much better in all kinds of ways.
NOTE CONF
So how do you know when to put something into
a method and when not to?
NOTE CONF
So generally, if it's a subtask, a clear kind of
unit you should be putting elsewhere.
NOTE CONF
A good rule of thumb is that a method should
never be more than ten to.
NOTE CONF
Well, a method should generally not be more than 10
to 15 lines long.
NOTE CONF
So if you look to the coding I had to
begin with, that was more than 15 lines long, I
NOTE CONF
think.
So generally you look at that and you're like, well,
NOTE CONF
probably the stuff that we can put up in a
method, this is not a hard rule.
NOTE CONF
There are some cases where you really do need a
method that's longer than this, but if it's more than
NOTE CONF
about ten lines, just begin to start thinking.
Actually, maybe I can put some of this into separate
NOTE CONF
functions and that's going to be better.
And certainly if you're writing things twice, if you're repeating
NOTE CONF
yourself, you shouldn't be repeating yourself.
You should be putting that in a method and calling
NOTE CONF
that method.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So this is some examples of ways we might want
to change and how it's nice and useful to have
NOTE CONF
that in functions much easier to localise modifications.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Now we're going to look at Euclidean distance between two
points.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So maybe if you've done a lot of math recently
NOTE CONF
this is really familiar to you.
I haven't actually done Euclidean distance for a long time.
NOTE CONF
But this is basically you're trying to find a you're
given a point P, and you're trying to figure out
NOTE CONF
how close other points are to P.
So for example, you might be trying to find the
NOTE CONF
closest point to P.
And you've got this sort of vaguely complex equation to
NOTE CONF
tell you how to do that.
So here We've got that coded.
NOTE CONF
So we've got what's going on here.
Distance takes in four doubles which is the two points.
NOTE CONF
It works out the distance between the x values and
the distance between the y values.
NOTE CONF
And then and this does this equation.
Um okay.
NOTE CONF
So just to look at the anatomy of a Java
function because we've talked about these quite a lot.
NOTE CONF
So probably most of these are familiar to you now.
So public and static or whatever they may be.
NOTE CONF
These are called modifiers.
These are attached to classes and methods and tell you
NOTE CONF
things about about the class that we'll talk about later.
As we've seen the next one is called the return
NOTE CONF
type tells you what is going to be returned.
Then you have the method name, and then you have
NOTE CONF
the parameters which have both the parameters themselves, the names
of the parameters, and they have the type of the
NOTE CONF
parameters.
Um, and you might have local variables which you're giving
NOTE CONF
specific values within the class.
Um, And you always have a return statement unless your
NOTE CONF
method is void.
Uh, this bit here where they're doing the working out
NOTE CONF
is called the function body.
And the whole thing is the declaration.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so that is the kind of language we're using.
If you're not quite clear about this, you should come
NOTE CONF
back to the slide and take a look.
But I will be using this quite frequently.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So calling a function we've got literal arguments right here
NOTE CONF
D has got something.
This is grounded in something specific.
NOTE CONF
These are literals that have actual values.
Whereas D here is a variable.
NOTE CONF
We're defining it in terms of other arguments.
And these here these are literals.
NOTE CONF
But these could also be variables.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So a variable is defined in terms of other things
a literal has an explicit value.
NOTE CONF
All right.
So now we're going to look at the structure control.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So functions provide ways to control the flow of execution.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So when you start off, when you first call a
NOTE CONF
function.
So when you when you begin, you always call.
NOTE CONF
When you run a class that always calls main.
That means the control of what's happening is in main.
NOTE CONF
It's in the function when when you call another function,
it passes control over to that function.
NOTE CONF
It'll go off.
Something will happen in that function, and then that function
NOTE CONF
will return something assuming it has a return value, or
just do whatever it's doing and not return anything if
NOTE CONF
it's void and that pass is controlled back to where
it happens, right?
NOTE CONF
If that's not clear, we're going to have a lot
of practice looking at what that really means when you're
NOTE CONF
doing it in practice.
Um, okay.
NOTE CONF
So in Java we use what we call pass by
value okay.
NOTE CONF
So that means parameter values are assigned the values given
by arguments to the call.
NOTE CONF
I'll give you examples of this later.
Um yeah I think it's better.
NOTE CONF
I think it's easier if I give you an example
later rather than randomly trying to find one now.
NOTE CONF
But the idea is that when I'm calling an argument,
I'm sorry, when I call a function, I tell it
NOTE CONF
what the arguments are.
Those pass in to the parameters of the function as
NOTE CONF
the arguments.
So I'm passing the values of the arguments around.
NOTE CONF
So the function itself only has access to the value
of its argument and not the arguments themselves.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So it only knows what's being passed into it.
NOTE CONF
We'll look at examples of what this means in a
minute okay.
NOTE CONF
So let's go to add one.
Oh sorry I was on silent okay.
NOTE CONF
So what's going on here.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So we start in the main method I'm instantiating an
integer to zero calling x.
NOTE CONF
And then I'm printing it out.
But I've also got this add one method right.
NOTE CONF
And what this does is it takes a value um
and num plus plus we looked at this with iterators.
NOTE CONF
This means add one to it okay.
So this is called add one.
NOTE CONF
So if I, if I run this what does it
return.
NOTE CONF
Well it just returns zero because I'm not actually using
this.
NOTE CONF
But let's uncomment this.
So now this is actually passing control up to this
NOTE CONF
method here.
Um so what is it going to do.
NOTE CONF
So have a little think what is this going to
do.
NOTE CONF
I'm passing at zero.
I'm doing this one and then I'm printing out zero.
NOTE CONF
Do I have a minty for this?
No.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um, so what is what is actually going to do?
NOTE CONF
Let's have a look.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
It's going to return zero.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So what's going on there.
Right.
NOTE CONF
I call this add one function.
This add one adds one to it.
NOTE CONF
But it didn't make any difference okay.
This is because variables are local within functions.
NOTE CONF
So I'm passing it zero and it's taking in an
argument.
NOTE CONF
And now within this locally this is called num num
is now assigned to zero I'm integrating in iterating it
NOTE CONF
I'm adding one.
NUM now has the value one.
NOTE CONF
But I'm not passing anything back right.
So this is void I'm not passing anything back.
NOTE CONF
So now this this is only.
So this is incremented by one but only locally.
NOTE CONF
I'm not doing anything with it.
So that's just completely forgotten.
NOTE CONF
I go back here and X hasn't changed.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Because X is just within this this function here.
So if I want to pass changes back I have
NOTE CONF
to be passing the values.
So that means here I have got to collect this.
NOTE CONF
So I want to say x equals add one x.
So this is saying go and do add one and
NOTE CONF
then assign that whatever comes back assign that to x
and then print x out.
NOTE CONF
Now obviously it doesn't like this because this is void.
It's not returning anything.
NOTE CONF
So I need to say what I want it to
return.
NOTE CONF
What is x.
X is an integer okay.
NOTE CONF
And I need the magic keyword return.
So let's run that.
NOTE CONF
There's another I don't know whether I should put this
computation in.
NOTE CONF
Maybe it's just confusing.
But if I run that okay.
NOTE CONF
This is also returning zero.
This is not anymore because of local variables.
NOTE CONF
This is because this is because of how iteration works.
And this is something that trips you up a lot.
NOTE CONF
You'll be practising this in tutorials because this is kind
of weird.
NOTE CONF
But basically iteration this what this shorthand means is do
whatever you're doing.
NOTE CONF
And after you've done it, add one.
This is why it's useful in four loops, because you
NOTE CONF
do whatever's happening in the for loop.
And then when everything's finished you add one and you
NOTE CONF
move on.
So basically what this says is return number.
NOTE CONF
And after you do that add one to number.
So number is now at one.
NOTE CONF
But what's returned was before that happened.
So what we actually need to do here is say
NOTE CONF
num.
We can just do that.
NOTE CONF
That should work right.
Oops.
NOTE CONF
Semicolon there.
Let me just check.
NOTE CONF
That works okay.
So this now works.
NOTE CONF
So I'm saying first of all increment num and then
return it.
NOTE CONF
So now it's it's passing x.
It's passing whatever the value of x is which is
NOTE CONF
zero back here is adding one to it.
It's returning the new value.
NOTE CONF
And then that's assigning it to one and printing it
out okay.
NOTE CONF
So it's not it's so it's passing the local value
back to the original control.
NOTE CONF
And therefore it's still knows what's going on okay.
So this is a lot to do with what's actually
NOTE CONF
happening in memory.
So we'll get on to memory, uh, quite soon, a
NOTE CONF
couple of weeks.
Um, but basically it's all to do with the calling
NOTE CONF
code.
So we're passing this number over and number is local
NOTE CONF
here.
Um, so in memory X and number are completely unrelated.
NOTE CONF
We can see how they're related, but they're not related
in memory.
NOTE CONF
So anything we do to num is not being passed
on to X.
NOTE CONF
You actually have to write it.
Write it over to X, assign it to X.
NOTE CONF
Um to pass that information on.
Uh, this is just more about the structure.
NOTE CONF
I actually should have put these before.
So here's the examples.
NOTE CONF
This is what we call a signature.
This is a name with the values of the arguments.
NOTE CONF
And the head of the definition has also got the
modifiers.
NOTE CONF
We've done all the return types.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
We've got five minutes.
I'm just going to have a look quickly at this.
NOTE CONF
Um yeah I think we've covered all of what this
is saying.
NOTE CONF
So the passed by value, um, here this is being
passed over because we're actually assigning the value to something
NOTE CONF
that's in the main code.
So arrays of reference types.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So actually no I don't want to get into this
NOTE CONF
now.
We'll have a look at this tomorrow.
NOTE CONF
So this is what happens with most things.
But arrays slightly complicate the issue.
NOTE CONF
Arrays do things a little bit differently.
Um and we'll go on to that uh, on Monday.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So.
NOTE CONF
I'm going to put the ask me anything up.
Um, so just put questions in now.
NOTE CONF
I will answer them on Monday and um, but if
anything comes up actually answers come in if it's useful.
NOTE CONF
Ah.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Oh.
How is it possible to get an Informatics hoodie?
NOTE CONF
I actually have no idea, but I can find that
out.
NOTE CONF
By the way, I'm not sure what's happening with the
ceilidh tomorrow, because there's this red warning for wind, which
NOTE CONF
is quite serious, so they might.
If you've got tickets for ceilidh, just look out for
NOTE CONF
information about that.
I hope they can still run it, but it's quite
NOTE CONF
bad.
Read warnings so just watch out tomorrow it's going to
NOTE CONF
be really bad.
Okay, okay.
NOTE CONF
I'm going to answer these questions later.
I.
NOTE CONF
Know you don't have tutorials today.
Whoever asked that there are no tutorials on this week.
NOTE CONF
Tutorials start next week.
Oh yes.
NOTE CONF
No I can I found it Oh, you did okay.
There was an error with the calendar.
NOTE CONF
Okay, good.
That's good.
NOTE CONF
Do you know where I might find the PDF version
of the book other than the epub one?
NOTE CONF
No.